---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/atlas/the-witherwild/haven/haven/"}
---

**Haven** was once the most powerful force in the region; for centuries, the high stone walls into the capital bore the phrase “The Godless Gate.” While the original meaning has been lost to common knowledge, some dusty tomes and ancient records state that the founders of Haven wished to be free of the influence of the [[Faint Divinity\|Faint Divinities]] that dominated the surrounding regions. 

## Overview
The people of **Haven** hatched a plan to kill one of the mightiest of the  [[Faint Divinity\|deities]], known as [[Shun’Aush the Granite Ophid\|Shun’Aush the Granite Ophid]]. While their exact method of deicide is forgotten, their victory ensured Haven’s dominance in the region for centuries to come. They made their home behind his remains, which became the mighty walls that **Haven** is known for.

But [[Shun’Aush the Granite Ophid\|Shun’Aush]] would have his revenge. As the **Havenites** carved through his stone body, the fine dust left behind settled into the surrounding earth. There was a time of prosperity over many centuries while the scales of the god remained undisturbed. But progress is its own pressure. The growing population demanded increased productivity, and as farmers tilled deeper soil and miners hacked into hidden stone, the ancient stone dust rose to the surface. The same walls that brought the city security became the crucible that incubated a virulent plague.

Over the last two years, over half of **Haven**’s populace fell to a disease known as the [[Lore/Serpent's Sickness\|Serpent's Sickness]]. First, victims cough up dust. Soon after, their skin breaks out in a scaling rash. Finally, their body hardens—first the flesh, bones, and soft tissue, spreading until, finally, their organs ossify. Once within the organs, “the serpent” moves so quickly that sufferers petrify where they stand, filling Haven with statues of victims in their last moments of agony.

The High Magus of **Haven**, [[Archmage Phylax\|Archmage Phylax]], discovered a rare red flower called the crimson lady’s veil that could cure the [[Lore/Serpent's Sickness\|Serpent's Sickness]]. These buds grow prolifically across [[Atlas/The Witherwild/Fanewick/Fanewick\|Fanewick]] in the spring—but for every ten thousand of the common white-petaled blossoms, only one red flower blooms. Desperate to save their people from the plague, Haven invaded [[Atlas/The Witherwild/Fanewick/Fanewick\|Fanewick]] to amass the scarce red buds. Their forces plunged into the deep wood and, under the guidance of [[Archmage Phylax\|Archmage Phylax]], plucked out the Reaping Eye from the most powerful [[Faint Divinity\|Faint Divinity]] that protected the land: The [[Great Owl Nikta\|Great Owl Nikta]], the Shepherd of the Seasons.

The [[Great Owl Nikta\|Shepherd]] kept [[Atlas/The Witherwild/Fanewick/Fanewick\|Fanewick]] in balance by turning her eyes upon the land, first for ripening, then ruination. Thus [[Great Owl Nikta\|Nikta]] maintained the cycle of seasons—of growth and decay, of death and rebirth. With her [[Reaping Eye\|Reaping Eye]] removed, [[Great Owl Nikta\|Nikta]] can only watch over [[Atlas/The Witherwild/Fanewick/Fanewick\|Fanewick]] with the [[Sowing Eye\|Sowing Eye]], forcing the land into everlasting spring.

In the year since, Haven has conquered the bogs, turning them into fields to harvest red flowers. The endless growth that once seemed like a gift quickly evolved into a scourge known as [[Atlas/The Witherwild/The Witherwild\|The Witherwild]]—[[Atlas/The Witherwild/Fanewick/Fanewick\|Fanewick]]’s flora and fauna flourished, unchecked and uncontrolled. Animals swell to massive size; trees warp, twist, and begin to hunt people; and vines creep along the forest floor, strangling all they touch. This explosive growth is unconquerable and unrelenting, with no force able to stop the burgeoning verdance for long.